book/src/configuration/preview/card.md, before:

# Card

Specific card preview settings.

- [Card](#card)
  - [Example](#example)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [show\_image](#show_image)
    - [round\_image\_corners](#round_image_corners)
    - [include](#include)
    - [exclude](#exclude)

## Example 

```toml
[preview.card]
exclude = ["*"] # hide card previews in all channels
include = ["#halloy"] # show card previews in #halloy
```

## Configuration

### show_image

Show image for card previews.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[preview.card]
show_image = true
```

### round_image_corners

Round the corners of the image in the card preview (if shown).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[preview.card]
round_image_corners = true
```

### include

Include card previews from channels & queries.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, the channel `#halloy` will show image previews. The include rule takes priority over exclude, so you can use both together. For example, you can exclude all channels & queries with `["*"]` and then only include a few specific channels.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[preview.card]
include = []
```

### exclude

Exclude card previews from channels & queries.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, the channel `#halloy` will not show image previews. You can also exclude all channels & queries by using a wildcard: `["*"]`.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[preview.card]
exclude = []
```

Commit message:

exclude previews from server messages

book/src/configuration/preview/card.md, after:

# Card

Specific card preview settings.

- [Card](#card)
  - [Example](#example)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [show\_image](#show_image)
    - [round\_image\_corners](#round_image_corners)
    - [include](#include)
    - [exclude](#exclude)

## Example 

```toml
[preview.card]
exclude = ["*"] # hide card previews in all channels
include = ["#halloy"] # show card previews in #halloy
```

## Configuration

### show_image

Show image for card previews.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[preview.card]
show_image = true
```

### round_image_corners

Round the corners of the image in the card preview (if shown).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[preview.card]
round_image_corners = true
```

### include

Include card previews from channels & queries.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, the channel `#halloy` will show image previews. The include rule takes priority over exclude, so you can use both together. For example, you can exclude all channels & queries with `["*"]` and then only include a few specific channels.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[preview.card]
include = []
```

### exclude

Exclude card previews from channels, queries and specific server messages.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, the channel `#halloy` will not show image previews. You can also exclude all channels & queries by using a wildcard: `["*"]`.

If you want to exclude certain server messages, the following is available to exclude:

- `["topic"]`
- `["part"]`
- `["quit"]`

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[preview.card]
exclude = ["topic", "#linux"] # exclude previews from topic changes in any channel, and all previews from all messages in #linux.
```
