book/src/configuration/preview/image.md, before:

# Image

Specific image preview settings.

- [Image](#image)
  - [Example](#example)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [action](#action)
    - [round\_corners](#round_corners)
    - [include](#include)
    - [exclude](#exclude)

## Example 

```toml
[preview.image]
exclude = ["*"] # hide image previews in all channels
include = ["#halloy"] # show image previews in #halloy
```

## Configuration

### action

Action when clicking on a image. `open-url` will open the image in the browser, and `preview` will display a larger version of the image in-app.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "open-url", "preview"
# Default: "preview"

[preview.image]
action = "preview"
```

### round_corners

Round the corners of the image.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[preview.image]
round_corners = true
```

### include

Include image previews from channels & queries.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, the channel `#halloy` will show image previews. The include rule takes priority over exclude, so you can use both together. For example, you can exclude all channels & queries with `["*"]` and then only include a few specific channels.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[preview.image]
include = []
```

### exclude

Exclude image previews from channels, queries and specific server messages.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, the channel `#halloy` will not show image previews. You can also exclude all channels & queries by using a wildcard: `["*"]`.

If you want to exclude certain server messages, the following is available to exclude:

- `["topic"]`
- `["part"]`
- `["quit"]`

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[preview.image]
exclude = ["topic", "#linux"] # exclude previews from topic changes in any channel, and all previews from all messages in #linux.
```

Commit message:

Use Inclusivities for card/image include/exclude conditions.

book/src/configuration/preview/image.md, after:

# Image

Specific image preview settings.

- [Image](#image)
  - [Example](#example)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [action](#action)
    - [round\_corners](#round_corners)
    - [include](#include)
    - [exclude](#exclude)

## Example 

```toml
[preview.image]
exclude = "*" # hide image previews in all channels
include = { channels = ["#halloy"] } # show image previews in #halloy
```

## Configuration

### action

Action when clicking on a image. `open-url` will open the image in the browser, and `preview` will display a larger version of the image in-app.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "open-url", "preview"
# Default: "preview"

[preview.image]
action = "preview"
```

### round_corners

Round the corners of the image.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[preview.image]
round_corners = true
```

### exclude

[Exclusion conditions](/configuration/conditions.md) for when image previews
will be hidden. Inclusion conditions will take precedence over exclusion
conditions. You can also exclude all conditions by setting to `"all"` or `"*"`.

```toml
# Type: inclusion/exclusion conditions
# Values: any inclusion/exclusion conditions
# Default: not set

[preview.image]
exclude = { criteria = [{ server_message = "topic", channel = "#linux" }] } # exclude previews from topic messages in #linux
```

### include

[Inclusion conditions](/configuration/conditions.md) for when image previews
will be shown. Image previews will be shown for all conditions (when enabled)
unless explicitly excluded, so this setting is only relevant when combined with
the `exclude` setting.

```toml
# Type: inclusion/exclusion conditions
# Values: any inclusion/exclusion conditions
# Default: not set

[preview.image]
include = { users = ["BridgeBot"] }
```
