book/src/configuration/buffer.md, before:

# `[buffer]`

Buffer settings for Halloy.

1. [Away](#bufferaway) - Controls the appearance of away nicknames
2. [Channel](#bufferchannel) - Channel specific settings
   1. [Message](#bufferchannelmessage) - Message settings within a channel buffer
   2. [Nicklist](#bufferchannelnicklist) - Nicklist settings within a channel buffer
   3. [Topic](#bufferchanneltopic) - Topic settings within a channel buffer
3. [Chathistory](#bufferchathistory) - IRCv3 Chat History extension settings
4. [Commands](#buffercommands) - Commands settings
5. [Date Separators](#bufferdate_separators) - Customize how date separators are displayed within a buffer
6. [Emojis](#bufferemojis) - Emojis settings
7. [Internal Messages](#bufferinternal_messages) - Internal messages are messages sent from Halloy itself
8. [Mark as Read](#buffermark_as_read) - When to automatically mark a buffer as read
9. [Nickname](#buffernickname) - Customize how nicknames are displayed within a buffer
10. [Server Messages](#bufferserver_messages) - Server messages are messages sent from a irc server.
11. [Status Message Prefix](#bufferstatus_message_prefix) - Status message prefix settings
12. [Text Input](#buffertext_input) - Customize the text input for in buffers
13. [Timestamp](#buffertimestamp) - Customize how timestamps are displayed within a buffer
14. [Url](#bufferurl) - URLs in buffers

## `[buffer.away]`

Controls the appearance of away nicknames.

### `appearance`

Controls the appearance of away nicknames in buffers.

```toml
# Type: string or object
# Values: "dimmed", "solid" or { dimmed = float }
# Default: "dimmed"
[buffer.away]
appearance = "dimmed"

# with custom dimming alpha value (0.0-1.0)
[buffer.away]
appearance = { dimmed = 0.5 }

# no away indication
[buffer.away]
appearance = "solid"
```

## `[buffer.channel]`

Channel specific settings

### `[buffer.channel.message]`

Message settings within a channel buffer.

#### `nickname_color`

Nickname colors in the message. `"unique"` generates colors by randomizing the hue, while keeping the saturation and lightness from the theme's nickname color.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "solid", "unique"
# Default: "unique"

[buffer.channel.message]
nickname_color = "unique"
```

### `[buffer.channel.nicklist]`

Nicklist settings within a channel buffer.

#### `alignment`

Horizontal alignment of nicknames.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "left", "right"
# Default: "left"

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
alignment = "left"
```

#### `color`

Nickname colors in the nicklist. `"unique"` generates colors by randomizing the hue, while keeping the saturation and lightness from the theme's nickname color.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "solid", "unique"
# Default: "unique"

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
color = "unique"
```

#### `enabled`

Control if nicklist should be shown or not by default.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
enabled = true
```

#### `position`

Nicklist position in the pane.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "left", "right"
# Default: "left"

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
position = "right"
```

#### `show_access_levels`

Show access levels in front of nicknames (`@`, `+`, `~`, etc.).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
show_access_levels = true
```

#### `width`

Overwrite nicklist width in pixels.

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any positive integer
# Default: not set

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
width = 150
```

#### `click`

Click action for when interaction with nicknames.

- `"open-query"`: Open a query with the User
- `"insert-nickname"`: Inserts the nickname into text input

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "open-query", "insert-nickname"
# Default: "open-query"

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
click = "open-query"
```

### `[buffer.channel.topic]`

Topic settings within a channel buffer.

#### `enabled`

Control if topic should be shown or not by default.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.channel.topic]
enabled = true
```

#### `max_lines`

Amount of visible lines before you have to scroll in topic banner.

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any positive integer
# Default: 2z

[buffer.channel.topic]
max_lines = 2
```

## `[buffer.chathistory]`

IRCv3 Chat History extension settings

### `infinite_scroll`

Automatically request older history when scrolling to the top of a channel/query buffer

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.chathistory]
infinite_scroll = true
```

## `[buffer.commands]`

Commands settings.

```toml
[buffer.commands]
show_description = false
```

### `show_description`

Show or hide the description for a command

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.commands]
show_description = true
```

## `[buffer.date_separators]`

Customize how date separators are displayed within a buffer

### `format`

Controls the date format. The expected format is [strftime](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/007908799/xsh/strftime.html).  
NOTE: The application will panic if a invalid format is provided.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: any valid strftime string
# Default: "%A, %B %-d"

[buffer.date_separators]
format = "%A, %B %-d"
```

### `show`

Show date separators.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.date_separators]
show = true
```

## `[buffer.emojis]`

Emojis settings.

```toml
[buffer.emojis]
show_picker = true
skin_tone = "default"
auto_replace = true
```

### `show_picker`

Show the emoji picker when typing `:shortcode:` in text input.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.emojis]
show_picker = true
```

### `skin_tone`

Skin tone selected when picking an emoji.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "default", "light", "medium-light", "medium", "medium-dark", "dark"
# Default: "default"

[buffer.emojis]
skin_tone = "default"
```

### `auto_replace`

Automatically replace `:shortcode:` in text input with the corresponding emoji.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.emojis]
auto_replace = true
```

### `characters_to_trigger_picker`

Minimum number of characters after `:` required for the emoji picker to show.
E.g. `:D` will not show the emoji picker unless `characters_to_trigger_picker` is less than or equal to `1`.

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any non-negative integer
# Default: 2

[buffer.emojis]
characters_to_trigger_picker = 2
```

## `[buffer.internal_messages]`

Internal messages are messages sent from Halloy itself.

### `[buffer.internal_messages.success]`

A internal messages which is considered a "success" such as when a connection was restored, or when connected successfully to a server.

#### `enabled`

Control if internal message type is enabled.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.internal_messages.success]
enabled = true
```

#### `smart`

Only show internal message if received within the given time duration (seconds).

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any positive integer
# Default: not set

[buffer.internal_messages.success]
smart = 180
```

### `[buffer.internal_messages.error]`

A internal messages which is considered a "error" such as when a connection was lost, or when connection to server failed.

#### `enabled`

Control if internal message type is enabled.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.internal_messages.error]
enabled = true
```

#### `smart`

Only show internal message if received within the given time duration (seconds).

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any positive integer
# Default: not set

[buffer.internal_messages.error]
smart = 180
```

## `[buffer.mark_as_read]`

When to mark a buffer as read

### `on_application_exit`

When exiting the application (all buffers, opened or closed, will be marked as read when the application exits).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: false

[buffer.mark_as_read]
on_application_exit = false
```

### `on_buffer_close`

When closing a buffer (a buffer is considered closed when it is replaced or if it is open when the application exits).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.mark_as_read]
on_buffer_close = true
```

### `on_scroll_to_bottom`

When scrolling to the bottom of a buffer.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.mark_as_read]
on_scroll_to_bottom = true
```

## `[buffer.nickname]`

Customize how nicknames are displayed within a buffer.

### `alignment`

Horizontal alignment of nicknames.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "left", "right", "top"
# Default: "left"

[buffer.nickname]
alignment = "right"
```

### `brackets`

Brackets around nicknames.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: { left = "<any string>", right = "<any string>" }
# Default: { left = "", right = "" }

[buffer.nickname]
brackets = { left = "<", right = ">" }
```

### `color`

Nickname colors in a channel buffer. `"unique"` generates colors by randomizing the hue, while keeping the saturation and lightness from the theme's nickname color.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "solid", "unique"
# Default: "unique"

[buffer.nickname]
color = "unique"
```

### `show_access_levels`

Show access levels in front of nicknames (`@`, `+`, `~`, etc.).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.nickname]
show_access_levels = true
```

### `click`

Click action for when interaction with nicknames.

- `"open-query"`: Open a query with the User
- `"insert-nickname"`: Inserts the nickname into text input

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "open-query", "insert-nickname"
# Default: "open-query"

[buffer.nickname]
click = "open-query"
```

## `[buffer.server_messages]`

Server messages are messages sent from a irc server.

- **change_host** - Message is sent when a user changes host  
- **join** - Message is sent when a user joins a channel  
- **monitored_offline** - Message is sent when a monitored user goes offline  
- **monitored_online** - Message is sent when a monitored user goes online  
- **part** - Message is sent when a user leaves a channel  
- **quit** - Message is sent when a user closes the connection to a channel or server  
- **standard_reply_fail** - Message is sent when a command/function fails or an error with the session  
- **standard_reply_note** - Message is sent when there is information about a command/function or session  
- **standard_reply_warn** - Message is sent when there is feedback about a command/function or session  
- **topic** - Message is sent when a user changes channel topic

Example

```toml
# Hide all join messages except for `#halloy` channel:

[buffer.server_messages.join]
exclude = ["*"]
include = ["#halloy"]

# Disable all part messages

[buffer.server_messages.part]
enabled = false
```

### `enabled`

Control if internal message type is enabled.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.server_messages.<server_message>]
enabled = true
```

### `smart`

Only show server message if the user has sent a message in the given time interval (seconds) prior to the server message.

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any positive integer
# Default: not set

[buffer.server_messages.<server_message>]
smart = 180
```

### `exclude`

Exclude channels from receiving the server message.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, the channel `#halloy` will not receive the server message. You can also exclude all channels by using a wildcard: `["*"]`.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[buffer.server_messages.<server_message>]
exclude = ["*"]
```

### `include`

Include channels to receive the server message.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, the channel `#halloy` will receive the server message. The include rule takes priority over exclude, so you can use both together. For example, you can exclude all channels with `["*"]` and then only include a few specific channels.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[buffer.server_messages.<server_message>]
include = ["#halloy"]
```

### `username_format`

Adjust the amount of information displayed for a username in server messages. If you choose `"short"`, only the nickname will be shown. If you choose `"full"`, the nickname, username, and hostname (if available) will be displayed.

Note: Not all server messages uses this setting.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "full", "short"
# Default: "full"

[buffer.server_messages.<server_message>]
username_format = "full"
```

## `[buffer.status_message_prefix]`

Status message prefix settings.

### `brackets`

Brackets around status message prefix.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: { left = "<any string>", right = "<any string>" }
# Default: { left = "", right = "" }

[buffer.status_message_prefix]
brackets = { left = "<", right = ">" }
```

## `[buffer.text_input]`

Customize the text input for in buffers.

### `visibility`

Text input visibility. When set to `"focused"` it will only be visible when the buffer is focused.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "always", "focused"
# Default: "always"

[buffer.text_input]
visibility = "always"
```

### `auto_format`

Control if the text input should auto format the input. By default text is only formatted when using the `/format` command.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "disabled", "markdown", "all"
# Default: "disabled"

[buffer.text_input]
auto_format = "markdown"
```

> 💡 Read more about [text formatting](../guides/text-formatting.md).

### `[buffer.text_input.autocomplete]`

Customize autocomplete.

#### `sort_direction`

Sort direction when autocompleting.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "asc", "desc"
# Default: "asc"

[buffer.text_input.autocomplete]
sort_direction = "asc"
```

#### `completion_suffixes`

Sets what suffix is added after autocompleting. The first option is for when a nickname is autocompleted at the beginning of a sentence. The second is for when it's autocompleted in the middle of a sentence.

```toml
# Type: array of 2 strings
# Values: array of 2 strings
# Default: [": ", " "]

[buffer.text_input.autocomplete]
completion_suffixes = [": ", " "]
```

## `[buffer.timestamp]`

Customize how timestamps are displayed within a buffer.

### `format`

Controls the timestamp format. The expected format is [strftime](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/007908799/xsh/strftime.html).

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: any valid strftime string
# Default: "%R"

[buffer.timestamp]
format = "%R"
```

### `brackets`

Brackets around timestamps.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: { left = "<any string>", right = "<any string>" }
# Default: { left = "", right = "" }

[buffer.timestamp]
brackets = { left = "[", right = "]" }
```

## `[buffer.url]`

Customize how urls behave in buffers

### `prompt_before_open`

Prompt before opening a hyperlink.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: false

[buffer.url]
prompt_before_open = true
```

Commit message:

Add order_by_recency setting to autocomplete users based first on how recently they were last seen in the channel.

book/src/configuration/buffer.md, after:

# `[buffer]`

Buffer settings for Halloy.

1. [Away](#bufferaway) - Controls the appearance of away nicknames
2. [Channel](#bufferchannel) - Channel specific settings
   1. [Message](#bufferchannelmessage) - Message settings within a channel buffer
   2. [Nicklist](#bufferchannelnicklist) - Nicklist settings within a channel buffer
   3. [Topic](#bufferchanneltopic) - Topic settings within a channel buffer
3. [Chathistory](#bufferchathistory) - IRCv3 Chat History extension settings
4. [Commands](#buffercommands) - Commands settings
5. [Date Separators](#bufferdate_separators) - Customize how date separators are displayed within a buffer
6. [Emojis](#bufferemojis) - Emojis settings
7. [Internal Messages](#bufferinternal_messages) - Internal messages are messages sent from Halloy itself
8. [Mark as Read](#buffermark_as_read) - When to automatically mark a buffer as read
9. [Nickname](#buffernickname) - Customize how nicknames are displayed within a buffer
10. [Server Messages](#bufferserver_messages) - Server messages are messages sent from a irc server.
11. [Status Message Prefix](#bufferstatus_message_prefix) - Status message prefix settings
12. [Text Input](#buffertext_input) - Customize the text input for in buffers
13. [Timestamp](#buffertimestamp) - Customize how timestamps are displayed within a buffer
14. [Url](#bufferurl) - URLs in buffers

## `[buffer.away]`

Controls the appearance of away nicknames.

### `appearance`

Controls the appearance of away nicknames in buffers.

```toml
# Type: string or object
# Values: "dimmed", "solid" or { dimmed = float }
# Default: "dimmed"
[buffer.away]
appearance = "dimmed"

# with custom dimming alpha value (0.0-1.0)
[buffer.away]
appearance = { dimmed = 0.5 }

# no away indication
[buffer.away]
appearance = "solid"
```

## `[buffer.channel]`

Channel specific settings

### `[buffer.channel.message]`

Message settings within a channel buffer.

#### `nickname_color`

Nickname colors in the message. `"unique"` generates colors by randomizing the hue, while keeping the saturation and lightness from the theme's nickname color.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "solid", "unique"
# Default: "unique"

[buffer.channel.message]
nickname_color = "unique"
```

### `[buffer.channel.nicklist]`

Nicklist settings within a channel buffer.

#### `alignment`

Horizontal alignment of nicknames.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "left", "right"
# Default: "left"

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
alignment = "left"
```

#### `color`

Nickname colors in the nicklist. `"unique"` generates colors by randomizing the hue, while keeping the saturation and lightness from the theme's nickname color.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "solid", "unique"
# Default: "unique"

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
color = "unique"
```

#### `enabled`

Control if nicklist should be shown or not by default.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
enabled = true
```

#### `position`

Nicklist position in the pane.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "left", "right"
# Default: "left"

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
position = "right"
```

#### `show_access_levels`

Show access levels in front of nicknames (`@`, `+`, `~`, etc.).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
show_access_levels = true
```

#### `width`

Overwrite nicklist width in pixels.

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any positive integer
# Default: not set

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
width = 150
```

#### `click`

Click action for when interaction with nicknames.

- `"open-query"`: Open a query with the User
- `"insert-nickname"`: Inserts the nickname into text input

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "open-query", "insert-nickname"
# Default: "open-query"

[buffer.channel.nicklist]
click = "open-query"
```

### `[buffer.channel.topic]`

Topic settings within a channel buffer.

#### `enabled`

Control if topic should be shown or not by default.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.channel.topic]
enabled = true
```

#### `max_lines`

Amount of visible lines before you have to scroll in topic banner.

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any positive integer
# Default: 2z

[buffer.channel.topic]
max_lines = 2
```

## `[buffer.chathistory]`

IRCv3 Chat History extension settings

### `infinite_scroll`

Automatically request older history when scrolling to the top of a channel/query buffer

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.chathistory]
infinite_scroll = true
```

## `[buffer.commands]`

Commands settings.

```toml
[buffer.commands]
show_description = false
```

### `show_description`

Show or hide the description for a command

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.commands]
show_description = true
```

## `[buffer.date_separators]`

Customize how date separators are displayed within a buffer

### `format`

Controls the date format. The expected format is [strftime](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/007908799/xsh/strftime.html).  
NOTE: The application will panic if a invalid format is provided.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: any valid strftime string
# Default: "%A, %B %-d"

[buffer.date_separators]
format = "%A, %B %-d"
```

### `show`

Show date separators.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.date_separators]
show = true
```

## `[buffer.emojis]`

Emojis settings.

```toml
[buffer.emojis]
show_picker = true
skin_tone = "default"
auto_replace = true
```

### `show_picker`

Show the emoji picker when typing `:shortcode:` in text input.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.emojis]
show_picker = true
```

### `skin_tone`

Skin tone selected when picking an emoji.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "default", "light", "medium-light", "medium", "medium-dark", "dark"
# Default: "default"

[buffer.emojis]
skin_tone = "default"
```

### `auto_replace`

Automatically replace `:shortcode:` in text input with the corresponding emoji.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.emojis]
auto_replace = true
```

### `characters_to_trigger_picker`

Minimum number of characters after `:` required for the emoji picker to show.
E.g. `:D` will not show the emoji picker unless `characters_to_trigger_picker` is less than or equal to `1`.

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any non-negative integer
# Default: 2

[buffer.emojis]
characters_to_trigger_picker = 2
```

## `[buffer.internal_messages]`

Internal messages are messages sent from Halloy itself.

### `[buffer.internal_messages.success]`

A internal messages which is considered a "success" such as when a connection was restored, or when connected successfully to a server.

#### `enabled`

Control if internal message type is enabled.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.internal_messages.success]
enabled = true
```

#### `smart`

Only show internal message if received within the given time duration (seconds).

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any positive integer
# Default: not set

[buffer.internal_messages.success]
smart = 180
```

### `[buffer.internal_messages.error]`

A internal messages which is considered a "error" such as when a connection was lost, or when connection to server failed.

#### `enabled`

Control if internal message type is enabled.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.internal_messages.error]
enabled = true
```

#### `smart`

Only show internal message if received within the given time duration (seconds).

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any positive integer
# Default: not set

[buffer.internal_messages.error]
smart = 180
```

## `[buffer.mark_as_read]`

When to mark a buffer as read

### `on_application_exit`

When exiting the application (all buffers, opened or closed, will be marked as read when the application exits).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: false

[buffer.mark_as_read]
on_application_exit = false
```

### `on_buffer_close`

When closing a buffer (a buffer is considered closed when it is replaced or if it is open when the application exits).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.mark_as_read]
on_buffer_close = true
```

### `on_scroll_to_bottom`

When scrolling to the bottom of a buffer.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.mark_as_read]
on_scroll_to_bottom = true
```

## `[buffer.nickname]`

Customize how nicknames are displayed within a buffer.

### `alignment`

Horizontal alignment of nicknames.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "left", "right", "top"
# Default: "left"

[buffer.nickname]
alignment = "right"
```

### `brackets`

Brackets around nicknames.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: { left = "<any string>", right = "<any string>" }
# Default: { left = "", right = "" }

[buffer.nickname]
brackets = { left = "<", right = ">" }
```

### `color`

Nickname colors in a channel buffer. `"unique"` generates colors by randomizing the hue, while keeping the saturation and lightness from the theme's nickname color.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "solid", "unique"
# Default: "unique"

[buffer.nickname]
color = "unique"
```

### `show_access_levels`

Show access levels in front of nicknames (`@`, `+`, `~`, etc.).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.nickname]
show_access_levels = true
```

### `click`

Click action for when interaction with nicknames.

- `"open-query"`: Open a query with the User
- `"insert-nickname"`: Inserts the nickname into text input

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "open-query", "insert-nickname"
# Default: "open-query"

[buffer.nickname]
click = "open-query"
```

## `[buffer.server_messages]`

Server messages are messages sent from a irc server.

- **change_host** - Message is sent when a user changes host  
- **join** - Message is sent when a user joins a channel  
- **monitored_offline** - Message is sent when a monitored user goes offline  
- **monitored_online** - Message is sent when a monitored user goes online  
- **part** - Message is sent when a user leaves a channel  
- **quit** - Message is sent when a user closes the connection to a channel or server  
- **standard_reply_fail** - Message is sent when a command/function fails or an error with the session  
- **standard_reply_note** - Message is sent when there is information about a command/function or session  
- **standard_reply_warn** - Message is sent when there is feedback about a command/function or session  
- **topic** - Message is sent when a user changes channel topic

Example

```toml
# Hide all join messages except for `#halloy` channel:

[buffer.server_messages.join]
exclude = ["*"]
include = ["#halloy"]

# Disable all part messages

[buffer.server_messages.part]
enabled = false
```

### `enabled`

Control if internal message type is enabled.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.server_messages.<server_message>]
enabled = true
```

### `smart`

Only show server message if the user has sent a message in the given time interval (seconds) prior to the server message.

```toml
# Type: integer
# Values: any positive integer
# Default: not set

[buffer.server_messages.<server_message>]
smart = 180
```

### `exclude`

Exclude channels from receiving the server message.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, the channel `#halloy` will not receive the server message. You can also exclude all channels by using a wildcard: `["*"]`.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[buffer.server_messages.<server_message>]
exclude = ["*"]
```

### `include`

Include channels to receive the server message.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, the channel `#halloy` will receive the server message. The include rule takes priority over exclude, so you can use both together. For example, you can exclude all channels with `["*"]` and then only include a few specific channels.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[buffer.server_messages.<server_message>]
include = ["#halloy"]
```

### `username_format`

Adjust the amount of information displayed for a username in server messages. If you choose `"short"`, only the nickname will be shown. If you choose `"full"`, the nickname, username, and hostname (if available) will be displayed.

Note: Not all server messages uses this setting.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "full", "short"
# Default: "full"

[buffer.server_messages.<server_message>]
username_format = "full"
```

## `[buffer.status_message_prefix]`

Status message prefix settings.

### `brackets`

Brackets around status message prefix.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: { left = "<any string>", right = "<any string>" }
# Default: { left = "", right = "" }

[buffer.status_message_prefix]
brackets = { left = "<", right = ">" }
```

## `[buffer.text_input]`

Customize the text input for in buffers.

### `visibility`

Text input visibility. When set to `"focused"` it will only be visible when the buffer is focused.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "always", "focused"
# Default: "always"

[buffer.text_input]
visibility = "always"
```

### `auto_format`

Control if the text input should auto format the input. By default text is only formatted when using the `/format` command.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "disabled", "markdown", "all"
# Default: "disabled"

[buffer.text_input]
auto_format = "markdown"
```

> 💡 Read more about [text formatting](../guides/text-formatting.md).

### `[buffer.text_input.autocomplete]`

Customize autocomplete.

#### `sort_direction`

Sort direction when autocompleting.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: "asc", "desc"
# Default: "asc"

[buffer.text_input.autocomplete]
sort_direction = "asc"
```

#### `completion_suffixes`

Sets what suffix is added after autocompleting. The first option is for when a nickname is autocompleted at the beginning of a sentence. The second is for when it's autocompleted in the middle of a sentence.

```toml
# Type: array of 2 strings
# Values: array of 2 strings
# Default: [": ", " "]

[buffer.text_input.autocomplete]
completion_suffixes = [": ", " "]
```

#### `order_by_recency`

Autocomplete users by their last message in the channel;  the user with most recent message autocompletes first, then increasing older messages.  Users with no seen messages are matched last, in the order specified by `sort_direction`.

```toml
# Type: bool
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[buffer.text_input.autocomplete]
order_by_recency = true
```

## `[buffer.timestamp]`

Customize how timestamps are displayed within a buffer.

### `format`

Controls the timestamp format. The expected format is [strftime](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/007908799/xsh/strftime.html).

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: any valid strftime string
# Default: "%R"

[buffer.timestamp]
format = "%R"
```

### `brackets`

Brackets around timestamps.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: { left = "<any string>", right = "<any string>" }
# Default: { left = "", right = "" }

[buffer.timestamp]
brackets = { left = "[", right = "]" }
```

## `[buffer.url]`

Customize how urls behave in buffers

### `prompt_before_open`

Prompt before opening a hyperlink.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: false

[buffer.url]
prompt_before_open = true
```
