book/src/configuration/highlights.md, before:

# `[highlights]`

Application wide highlights.

**Example**

```toml
# Enable nickname highlights only in channel #halloy.
[highlights.nickname]
exclude = ["*"]
include = ["#halloy"]

# Highlight on 'boat' and 'car' in any channel.
[[highlights.match]]
words = ["boat", "car"]
case_insensitive = true

# Highlight when regex matches in any channel except #noisy-channel.
[[highlights.match]]
regex = '''(?i)\bcasper\b'''
exclude = ["#noisy-channel"]
```

## `[highlights.nickname]`

Nickname highlights.

### `exclude`

Channels in which you won’t be highlighted.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, you won’t be highlighted in that channel. You can also exclude all channels by using a wildcard: `["*"]`.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[highlights.nickname]
exclude = ["*"]
```

### `include`

Channels in which you will be highlighted, only useful when combined with `exclude = ["*"]`.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, you will only be highlighted in that channel.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: ["*"]

[highlights.nickname]
exclude = ["*"]
include = ["#halloy"]
```

## `[[highlights.match]]`

Highlight based on matches.

### `words`

You can set words to be highlighted when they are written.

Example shows word matches, which will trigger on `"word1"`, `"word2"` or `"word3"` in any channel.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[[highlights.match]]
words = ["word1", "word2", "word3"]
```

### `case_insensitive`

This option is only available when using `words` as the match type.
You can choose whether or not to trigger regardless of case.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: false

[[highlights.match]]
words = ["word1", "word2", "word3"]
case_insensitive = true
```

### `regex`

Match based on regex.

<div class="warning">

Use toml multi-line literal strings `'''\bfoo'd\b'''` when writing a regex. This allows you to write write the regex without
escaping. You can also use a literal string `'\bfoo\b'`, but then you can't use `'` inside the string.

Without literal strings, you'd have to write the above as `"\\bfoo'd\\b"`

</div>

Example shows a regex that matches the word "casper", regardless of case and only when it appears as a whole word in any channel.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: any string
# Default: not set

[[highlights.match]]
regex = '''(?i)\bcasper\b'''
```

### `exclude`

Channels in which you won’t be highlighted.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, you won’t be highlighted in that channel. You can also exclude all channels by using a wildcard: `["*"]`.

Example shows a regex match which will be excluded in from `#noisy-channel`

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[[highlights.match]]
regex = '''(?i)\bcasper\b'''
exclude = ["#noisy-channel"]
```

### `include`

Channels in which you will be highlighted, only useful when combined with `exclude = ["*"]`.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, you will only be highlighted in that channel.

Example shows a words match which will only try to match in `#halloy` channel.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: ["*"]

[[highlights.match]]
words = ["word1", "word2", "word3"]
exclude = ["*"]
include = ["#halloy"]
```

Commit message:

Add setting to control case sensitivity when matching nickname highlight.

book/src/configuration/highlights.md, after:

# `[highlights]`

Application wide highlights.

**Example**

```toml
# Enable nickname highlights only in channel #halloy.
[highlights.nickname]
exclude = ["*"]
include = ["#halloy"]

# Highlight on 'boat' and 'car' in any channel.
[[highlights.match]]
words = ["boat", "car"]
case_insensitive = true

# Highlight when regex matches in any channel except #noisy-channel.
[[highlights.match]]
regex = '''(?i)\bcasper\b'''
exclude = ["#noisy-channel"]
```

## `[highlights.nickname]`

Nickname highlights.

### `exclude`

Channels in which you won’t be highlighted.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, you won’t be highlighted in that channel. You can also exclude all channels by using a wildcard: `["*"]`.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[highlights.nickname]
exclude = ["*"]
```

### `include`

Channels in which you will be highlighted, only useful when combined with `exclude = ["*"]`.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, you will only be highlighted in that channel.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: ["*"]

[highlights.nickname]
exclude = ["*"]
include = ["#halloy"]
```

### `case_insensitive`

Whether or not to trigger regardless nickname highlight regardless of case.
Uses the casemapping [specified by server](https://modern.ircdocs.horse/#casemapping-parameter).

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: true

[highlights.nickname]
case_insensitive = false
```

## `[[highlights.match]]`

Highlight based on matches.

### `words`

You can set words to be highlighted when they are written.

Example shows word matches, which will trigger on `"word1"`, `"word2"` or `"word3"` in any channel.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[[highlights.match]]
words = ["word1", "word2", "word3"]
```

### `case_insensitive`

This option is only available when using `words` as the match type.
You can choose whether or not to trigger regardless of case.

```toml
# Type: boolean
# Values: true, false
# Default: false

[[highlights.match]]
words = ["word1", "word2", "word3"]
case_insensitive = true
```

### `regex`

Match based on regex.

<div class="warning">

Use toml multi-line literal strings `'''\bfoo'd\b'''` when writing a regex. This allows you to write write the regex without
escaping. You can also use a literal string `'\bfoo\b'`, but then you can't use `'` inside the string.

Without literal strings, you'd have to write the above as `"\\bfoo'd\\b"`

</div>

Example shows a regex that matches the word "casper", regardless of case and only when it appears as a whole word in any channel.

```toml
# Type: string
# Values: any string
# Default: not set

[[highlights.match]]
regex = '''(?i)\bcasper\b'''
```

### `exclude`

Channels in which you won’t be highlighted.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, you won’t be highlighted in that channel. You can also exclude all channels by using a wildcard: `["*"]`.

Example shows a regex match which will be excluded in from `#noisy-channel`

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: []

[[highlights.match]]
regex = '''(?i)\bcasper\b'''
exclude = ["#noisy-channel"]
```

### `include`

Channels in which you will be highlighted, only useful when combined with `exclude = ["*"]`.
If you pass `["#halloy"]`, you will only be highlighted in that channel.

Example shows a words match which will only try to match in `#halloy` channel.

```toml
# Type: array of strings
# Values: array of any strings
# Default: ["*"]

[[highlights.match]]
words = ["word1", "word2", "word3"]
exclude = ["*"]
include = ["#halloy"]
```
